# Sentiment-analysis-and-LSTM-to-predict-stock-market
Stock market data consist of noisy and volatile time-series data which increase the uncertainty in prediction of the future market. It is also challenging to understand the various factors (political and social factors) associated with market. Influence of social media can further increase the uncertainty about the investment strategy. The conventional method mostly focused on the time series data like autoregression, auto regression average model (ARMA) and autoregression integrate moving average model (ARIMA). Due to its supervised nature with presumption and unable to incorporate with social parameters, it has drawback on stock market prediction. Smailović et al. 2014 studied impact of Twitter sentiment in the stock price by using Support Vector Machine (SVM) trained with social data. Irrational behavior of investor on stock investment can be connected by sentiment (Wai & Peng, 2018; Mehtab & Sen, 2019). The expression in the social media can be driving factors and understanding this sentiment can help to understand the investment strategy.

Prediction of future stock market will help in better decision making by stock traders. However, volatile, and nonlinear nature in the stock markets is huge challenge for investor. Number of studies has been done to find the trend of the stock market based in various machine learning
procedure. One of the important aspects is to understand the impact of social media on stock market. Various deep learning method and classifiers method was used to analyze the social media and financial news and found promising prediction accuracies (Khan et al., 2020). Goel and Mittal, 2012 proposed fuzzy neural networks to analysis twitter for financial data and obtain 75.56% accuracy. Recurrent networks Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) was designed by Hochreiter and Schmidhuber, 1997 to overcome backflow error problems and was found have better result in time series. Time series data has challenge in prediction pattern (Xu, Santu and Veeramachaneni, 2019). One of the popular mode ARIMA , it consider the future value of a variable to be linear combination of past values and past errors. Assumptions of stationary and unable to relate with time series is expected to be the draw back on stock market prediction. So, LSTM model was selected in this study. LSTM model in study by Hassanzadeh et. Al, 2020 using news headline to predict the stock market and found promising result. Study by Shah et. al, 2018 on comparing the prediction of stock market trend by using Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) performed better than deep neural network (DNN). Also study on market forecasting based on the Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) and compared with ARIMA model, more accurate prediction was made my LSTM for stock prediction (Manurung et. al, 2018)

Machine-learning based model long short-term memory (LSTM) was used in this study to analyze and predict the timeseries stock price. It is a special type of Recurrent Neural Network which correlate between time series inputs. Publicly available Redddit data set from Kaggel (1/28/2021- 6/10/2021) was used in this study (Kaggle, 2021). The data has daily discussion from redditsub named wallstreetbets where retailers sharing information about the promising earning and stock. This platform with about 10.5 million active members is considered as important information source for the financial news. Stock of AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. (AMC), GameStop Corp (GME) and Apple (AAPL) were used for this study. The stocks are selected based on the stock matter and news coverage, one is hyped and hugely discussed in social platform and news (AMC and GME) and the other stcock Apple (AAPL) which is a fundamental stock.Sentiment analysis: The first phase of the analysis was to classify the sentiment on the group daily based on investing or non-investing category. Cleaning of the text data was performed (removing the stop word, removing spaces, and lowering the text). For social media sentiment classification, pre trained model Sentiment Intensity Analyzer model was used which is trained on social media data. Selected highly promising word that implies positive and negative sentiment for investment were given higher level of focus during calculation of the sentiment. The series data (date, stock price and sentiment) are in different scale so rescaling of the data from the original range was normalized in 0 to 1 range done by Min-Max scaler prior model fitting. The data is split in 90% for training, 10% for testing. Keras deep learning framework of Python was used to implement LSTM network. The second phase of the analysis was to merge the daily sentiment with the company stock data. Daily closing prices was considered during analysis, LSTM model was used to predict the daily closing prices. LSTM in particular is significant in sequence prediction and time series forecasting. The Deep Learning Architecture used for the analysis consists of 3 Layers of LSTM and 3 layers of Dense layer. The activation function and optimizer used were relu and adam. Model simulation was done for each three stock and its respective sentiment. Also, baseline model simulation was done without sentiment and the evaluation matrix (RMSE and MAPE) was compared for each simulation.

